README.md, before:

<img align="left" width="150" src="https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/ml_toast_logo.png" alt="ml_toast_logo"></img><br>

# 🍞 ML-ToAST: <b>M</b>ulti<b>l</b>ingual <b>To</b>pic Clustering of <b>A</b>ds-triggering <b>S</b>earch <b>T</b>erms<br><br>

**Disclaimer: This is not an official Google product.**

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/ml_toast/blob/main/ml_toast.ipynb)

[What it solves](#challenges) •
[How it works](#solution-overview) •
[Get started](#get-started) •
[References](#references)

## Overview

**ML-ToAST** is an open-source tool that helps users cluster multilingual search
terms captured from different time windows into semantically relevant topics. It
helps advertisers / marketers surface the topics or *themes* their audience are
interested in, so that they can tailor their marketing activities accordingly.

Under the hood, the tool relies on Google's
[Universal Sentence Encoder Multilingual](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual/3)
model to generate word embeddings, applies a couple of widely-used clustering
algorithms - namely
[K-Means](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r2.0/api_docs/python/tf/compat/v1/estimator/experimental/KMeans)
and [HDBSCAN](https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (with
[UMAP](https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) dimensionality reduction) -
to generate clusters, and then selects the most meaningful term(s) to represent
each cluster.

Input is provided via a Google Sheets spreadsheet, preprocessing and clustering
takes place directly in this notebook, and the resulting topics are output back
into the same spreadsheet. In other words, all data remains **private** - only
visible to and in the control of the tool's user.

Though the samples provided here are specific to Google Ads, the same approach
can quite seamlessly be used for any other advertising platform, or simply for
any application where clustering of short texts is the goal.

## Challenges

Advertisers spend a significant amount of time analyzing how customers are
searching for and engaging with their business, in order to understand:

* Where their existing offerings resonate most; and
* How they can tailor facets of their ads, such as landing pages and
    creatives, to match changing consumer interest.

One of the approaches advertisers rely on is analyzing search queries against
which their ads appear, categorising these queries into meaningful themes, and
analyzing themes to generate insights.

> ***Topic clustering requires both time and expertise to execute properly, and
> may be computationally resource intensive.***

In the context of Google Ads, the
[Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708) for
a particular account lists all the search queries that have triggered the ads
defined in that account, along with performance metrics (such as clicks,
impressions, etc.). It is important to note that certain search terms that don't
have enough query activity are omitted from the report in order to maintain
Google's standards on data privacy.

> ***Google Ads: though the
> [Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708)
> can be downloaded and analyzed, it is cumbersome for advertisers to sift
> through thousands of queries - usually in multiple languages - to extract
> meaningful insights.***

Google Ads employs several different
[search automation](https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/unlock_the_power_of_search_2022.pdf)
and optimization features, one of which is Broad Match. Whereas other keyword
matching types focus only on syntax,
[Broad Match](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/12159290) applies
matching based on semantics - the meaning conveyed by a search - in addition to
syntax. BM also looks at additional signals in the account - which include
landing pages, keywords in ad groups, previous searches, and more - in order to
match more relevant traffic.

> ***Google Ads: the need to understand changing user interest is becoming ever
> more important, particularly with automated search optimization (e.g.
> [Broad Match](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/12159290)) becoming
> more fundamental.***

Google Ads also provides
[search term insights](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/11386930)
within its user interface (UI). Search terms that triggered ads over the past 56
days are automatically analyzed and grouped into categories and subcategories,
including performance metrics.

> ***Google Ads:
> [search term insights](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/11386930) -
> though technologically more sophisticated than the methodology applied here -
> cover the past 8 weeks only, are not available beyond the UI, and cannot be
> collated across accounts.***

## Solution Overview

ML-ToAST tackles the challenges mentioned above in a simple, configurable and
privacy-safe way. It relies on a Google Sheets spreadsheet as input, where
search terms from different lookback windows can be compared (see the ***Which
search terms to extract?*** section below for more information) to uncover only
those that are *new*, and/or also those that have not received enough
impressions (configurable - defaults to 1000). This represents the corpus of
search terms that can be further analyzed and categorized into semantically
relevant topics.

Additional input groups pertaining to Google Ads Broad Match (BM) are also built
and analyzed to shed some light into BM's performance.

The figure below provides an overview of the core functionality of ML-ToAST.

<center>
  <img
    src="https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/ml_toast_diagram.png"
    alt="ml_toast_diagram"
  />
  <p>Fig. 1. ML-ToAST Process Diagram</p>
</center>

### Which search terms to extract?

We recommend extracting the Google Ads
[Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708) for
the following periods: ***Last 30 days** (e.g. Nov 1 - Nov 30): it generally
makes sense to look at the most recent search terms that triggered your ads.*
**Previous 30/31 days** (e.g. Oct 1 - Oct 31): this helps provide information on
those search terms that constitute your core business over those that are
recently trending. * **Last 30 days last year** (e.g. Nov 1 - Nov 30 of the
previous year): to account for seasonality effects (e.g. holiday season).

We also recommend restricting the extracted search terms to a subset of
*related* campaigns (e.g. all campaigns for a specific *product line* or
*operating domain*) rather than all campaigns in your account. This allows the
models applied here to better capture how the search terms relate to one
another, and therefore, extract more meaningful topics.

The report can be downloaded from the Google Ads UI in CSV format and imported
into a Google Sheets spreadsheet.

*Note: if you have multiple accounts operating under the same product line or
domain, you can extract search terms from those accounts as well and group them
all into the same Google Sheets spreadsheet.*

### Get Started

The quickest way to get started is to load the `ml_toast.ipynb` notebook in
Google Colaboratory via the link below:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/ml_toast/blob/main/ml_toast.ipynb)

The notebook provides an easy to use interface for configuring and running
ML-ToAST, along with a code walkthrough and results visualization.

Alternatively, you can build ML-ToAST using the provided `requirements.txt`:

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

and run `topic_clustering.py` manually passing in the desired arguments:

  Usage:

  ```shell
  topic_clustering.py   --csv_data_path=<INPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        --output_path=<OUTPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        [--data_id=<INPUT_DATA_ID>]
                        [--input_col=<INPUT_DATA_COLUMN>]
                        [--output_kmeans_col=<OUTPUT_KMEANS_COL>]
                        [--output_hdbscan_col=<OUTPUT_HDBSCAN_COLUMN>]
                        [--stop_words=<STOP_WORDS>]
                        [--kmeans_clusters=<KMEANS_CLUSTERS>]
                        [--umap_n_neighbors=<UMAP_N_NEIGHBORS>]
                        [--umap_n_components=<UMAP_N_COMPONENTS>]
                        [--hdbscan_min_cluster_size=<HDBSCAN_MIN_CLUSTER_SIZE>]
                        [--hdbscan_min_samples=<HDBSCAN_MIN_SAMPLES>]
                        [--opt_threshold_unclustered=<OPT_THRESHOLD_UNCLUSTERED>]
                        [--opt_threshold_recluster=<OPT_THRESHOLD_RECLUSTER>]
                        [--hyperparameter_tuning] [--nohyperparameter_tuning]
  ```

  Options:

  ```console
  --help                show this help message
  --csv_data_path=<INPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        path to a csv file containing the data to use. Defaults
                        to the path 'samples/data.csv' relative to the current
                        (root) directory.
  --output_path=<OUTPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        path where the output should be stored. Defaults to the
                        path 'output/data.csv' relative to the current (root)
                        directory.
  --data_id=<INPUT_DATA_ID>
                        identifier of the input data. Useful for logging when
                        running the module with different inputs. Defaults to
                        the value 'data'.
  --input_col=<INPUT_DATA_COL>
                        column in the input data corresponding to the
                        documents to cluster. Defaults to the value 'document'.
  --output_kmeans_col=<OUTPUT_KMEANS_COLUMN>
                        column to write the generated K-Means cluster
                        assignments to. Defaults to the value 'topics_kmeans'.
  --output_hdbscan_col=<OUTPUT_HDBSCAN_COLUMN>
                        column to write the generated HDBSCAN cluster
                        assignments to. Defaults to the value 'topics_hdbscan'.
  --stop_words=<STOP_WORDS>
                        list of custom words to use as stop words for the
                        generated topic labels. Defaults to None.
  --kmeans_clusters=<KMEANS_CLUSTERS>
                        list of clusters to use to identify the optimal value of
                        K. Defaults to the range 5-15.
  --umap_n_neighbors=<UMAP_N_NEIGHBORS>
                        hyperparameter 'n_neighbors' for UMAP. Defaults to 15.
                        See https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html#n-neighbors
                        for more information.
  --umap_n_components=<UMAP_N_COMPONENTS>
                        hyperparameter 'n_components' for UMAP. Defaults to 30.
                        See https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html#n_components
                        for more information.
  --hdbscan_min_cluster_size=<HDBSCAN_MIN_CLUSTER_SIZE>
                        hyperparameter 'min_cluster_size' for HDBSCAN. Defaults
                        to 20. See
                        https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameter_selection.html#selecting-min-cluster-size
                        for more information.
  --hdbscan_min_samples=<HDBSCAN_MIN_SAMPLES>
                        hyperparameter 'min_samples' for HDBSCAN. Defaults to 5.
                        See https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameter_selection.html#selecting-min-samples
                        for more information.
  --opt_threshold_unclustered=<OPT_THRESHOLD_UNCLUSTERED>
                        1 of 2 thresholds for optimizing generated HDBSCAN
                        clusters through linear regression. This represents the
                        threshold for clustering unassigned data points (HDBSCAN
                        label = -1). Defaults to assign data points with at
                        least 40% (0.4) predicted cluster assignment confidence.
  --opt_threshold_recluster=<OPT_THRESHOLD_RECLUSTER>
                        1 of 2 thresholds for optimizing generated HDBSCAN
                        clusters through linear regression. This represents the
                        threshold for reclustering assigned data points (HDBSCAN
                        label != -1). Defaults to reassign data points with at
                        least 80% (0.8) predicted cluster assignment confidence
                        from their original HDBSCAN cluster to their predicted
                        cluster.
  --hyperparameter_tuning --nohyperparameter_tuning
                        whether to perform bayesian optimization to find the
                        optimal hyperparameters for UMAP + HDBSCAN or not.
                        Defaults to True.
  ```

> Please note that ML-ToAST relies on the `tensorflow-text` package, which is
> no longer available for all platforms (e.g. Apple Macs and Windows) and
> accordingly might need to be built from source. Refer to these
> [instructions](https://github.com/tensorflow/text#a-note-about-different-operating-system-packages)
> for more information.

## Citing ML-ToAST

To cite this repository:

```
@software{ml_toast_github,
  author = {Mohab Fekry and Christiane Ahlheim and Victor Paunescu},
  title = {🍞 ML-ToAST: Multilingual Topic Clustering of Ads-triggering Search Terms},
  url = {https://github.com/google/ml_toast},
  version = {0.1.0},
  year = {2023},
}
```

## References

- [Kong, J., Scott, A., & Goerg, G. M. (2016). Improving topic clustering on search queries with word co-occurrence and bipartite graph co-clustering. Google Research.](https://research.google/pubs/pub45569/)

Commit message:

Add umap_random_state flag to README
PiperOrigin-RevId: 505650709
Change-Id: I31ba731e4d0e887b387dd7f69eb6b6cfdb5c8a9d

README.md, after:

<img align="left" width="150" src="https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/ml_toast_logo.png" alt="ml_toast_logo"></img><br>

# 🍞 ML-ToAST: <b>M</b>ulti<b>l</b>ingual <b>To</b>pic Clustering of <b>A</b>ds-triggering <b>S</b>earch <b>T</b>erms<br><br>

**Disclaimer: This is not an official Google product.**

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/ml_toast/blob/main/ml_toast.ipynb)

[What it solves](#challenges) •
[How it works](#solution-overview) •
[Get started](#get-started) •
[References](#references)

## Overview

**ML-ToAST** is an open-source tool that helps users cluster multilingual search
terms captured from different time windows into semantically relevant topics. It
helps advertisers / marketers surface the topics or *themes* their audience are
interested in, so that they can tailor their marketing activities accordingly.

Under the hood, the tool relies on Google's
[Universal Sentence Encoder Multilingual](https://tfhub.dev/google/universal-sentence-encoder-multilingual/3)
model to generate word embeddings, applies a couple of widely-used clustering
algorithms - namely
[K-Means](https://www.tensorflow.org/versions/r2.0/api_docs/python/tf/compat/v1/estimator/experimental/KMeans)
and [HDBSCAN](https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (with
[UMAP](https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) dimensionality reduction) -
to generate clusters, and then selects the most meaningful term(s) to represent
each cluster.

Input is provided via a Google Sheets spreadsheet, preprocessing and clustering
takes place directly in this notebook, and the resulting topics are output back
into the same spreadsheet. In other words, all data remains **private** - only
visible to and in the control of the tool's user.

Though the samples provided here are specific to Google Ads, the same approach
can quite seamlessly be used for any other advertising platform, or simply for
any application where clustering of short texts is the goal.

## Challenges

Advertisers spend a significant amount of time analyzing how customers are
searching for and engaging with their business, in order to understand:

* Where their existing offerings resonate most; and
* How they can tailor facets of their ads, such as landing pages and
    creatives, to match changing consumer interest.

One of the approaches advertisers rely on is analyzing search queries against
which their ads appear, categorising these queries into meaningful themes, and
analyzing themes to generate insights.

> ***Topic clustering requires both time and expertise to execute properly, and
> may be computationally resource intensive.***

In the context of Google Ads, the
[Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708) for
a particular account lists all the search queries that have triggered the ads
defined in that account, along with performance metrics (such as clicks,
impressions, etc.). It is important to note that certain search terms that don't
have enough query activity are omitted from the report in order to maintain
Google's standards on data privacy.

> ***Google Ads: though the
> [Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708)
> can be downloaded and analyzed, it is cumbersome for advertisers to sift
> through thousands of queries - usually in multiple languages - to extract
> meaningful insights.***

Google Ads employs several different
[search automation](https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/unlock_the_power_of_search_2022.pdf)
and optimization features, one of which is Broad Match. Whereas other keyword
matching types focus only on syntax,
[Broad Match](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/12159290) applies
matching based on semantics - the meaning conveyed by a search - in addition to
syntax. BM also looks at additional signals in the account - which include
landing pages, keywords in ad groups, previous searches, and more - in order to
match more relevant traffic.

> ***Google Ads: the need to understand changing user interest is becoming ever
> more important, particularly with automated search optimization (e.g.
> [Broad Match](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/12159290)) becoming
> more fundamental.***

Google Ads also provides
[search term insights](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/11386930)
within its user interface (UI). Search terms that triggered ads over the past 56
days are automatically analyzed and grouped into categories and subcategories,
including performance metrics.

> ***Google Ads:
> [search term insights](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/11386930) -
> though technologically more sophisticated than the methodology applied here -
> cover the past 8 weeks only, are not available beyond the UI, and cannot be
> collated across accounts.***

## Solution Overview

ML-ToAST tackles the challenges mentioned above in a simple, configurable and
privacy-safe way. It relies on a Google Sheets spreadsheet as input, where
search terms from different lookback windows can be compared (see the ***Which
search terms to extract?*** section below for more information) to uncover only
those that are *new*, and/or also those that have not received enough
impressions (configurable - defaults to 1000). This represents the corpus of
search terms that can be further analyzed and categorized into semantically
relevant topics.

Additional input groups pertaining to Google Ads Broad Match (BM) are also built
and analyzed to shed some light into BM's performance.

The figure below provides an overview of the core functionality of ML-ToAST.

<center>
  <img
    src="https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/ml_toast_diagram.png"
    alt="ml_toast_diagram"
  />
  <p>Fig. 1. ML-ToAST Process Diagram</p>
</center>

### Which search terms to extract?

We recommend extracting the Google Ads
[Search Terms report](https://support.google.com/google-ads/answer/2472708) for
the following periods: ***Last 30 days** (e.g. Nov 1 - Nov 30): it generally
makes sense to look at the most recent search terms that triggered your ads.*
**Previous 30/31 days** (e.g. Oct 1 - Oct 31): this helps provide information on
those search terms that constitute your core business over those that are
recently trending. * **Last 30 days last year** (e.g. Nov 1 - Nov 30 of the
previous year): to account for seasonality effects (e.g. holiday season).

We also recommend restricting the extracted search terms to a subset of
*related* campaigns (e.g. all campaigns for a specific *product line* or
*operating domain*) rather than all campaigns in your account. This allows the
models applied here to better capture how the search terms relate to one
another, and therefore, extract more meaningful topics.

The report can be downloaded from the Google Ads UI in CSV format and imported
into a Google Sheets spreadsheet.

*Note: if you have multiple accounts operating under the same product line or
domain, you can extract search terms from those accounts as well and group them
all into the same Google Sheets spreadsheet.*

### Get Started

The quickest way to get started is to load the `ml_toast.ipynb` notebook in
Google Colaboratory via the link below:

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/google/ml_toast/blob/main/ml_toast.ipynb)

The notebook provides an easy to use interface for configuring and running
ML-ToAST, along with a code walkthrough and results visualization.

Alternatively, you can build ML-ToAST using the provided `requirements.txt`:

```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

and run `topic_clustering.py` manually passing in the desired arguments:

  Usage:

  ```shell
  topic_clustering.py   --csv_data_path=<INPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        --output_path=<OUTPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        [--data_id=<INPUT_DATA_ID>]
                        [--input_col=<INPUT_DATA_COLUMN>]
                        [--output_kmeans_col=<OUTPUT_KMEANS_COL>]
                        [--output_hdbscan_col=<OUTPUT_HDBSCAN_COLUMN>]
                        [--stop_words=<STOP_WORDS>]
                        [--kmeans_clusters=<KMEANS_CLUSTERS>]
                        [--umap_n_neighbors=<UMAP_N_NEIGHBORS>]
                        [--umap_n_components=<UMAP_N_COMPONENTS>]
                        [--umap_random_state=<UMAP_RANDOM_STATE>]
                        [--hdbscan_min_cluster_size=<HDBSCAN_MIN_CLUSTER_SIZE>]
                        [--hdbscan_min_samples=<HDBSCAN_MIN_SAMPLES>]
                        [--opt_threshold_unclustered=<OPT_THRESHOLD_UNCLUSTERED>]
                        [--opt_threshold_recluster=<OPT_THRESHOLD_RECLUSTER>]
                        [--hyperparameter_tuning] [--nohyperparameter_tuning]
  ```

  Options:

  ```console
  --help                show this help message
  --csv_data_path=<INPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        path to a csv file containing the data to use. Defaults
                        to the path 'samples/data.csv' relative to the current
                        (root) directory.
  --output_path=<OUTPUT_DATA_PATH>
                        path where the output should be stored. Defaults to the
                        path 'output/data.csv' relative to the current (root)
                        directory.
  --data_id=<INPUT_DATA_ID>
                        identifier of the input data. Useful for logging when
                        running the module with different inputs. Defaults to
                        the value 'data'.
  --input_col=<INPUT_DATA_COL>
                        column in the input data corresponding to the
                        documents to cluster. Defaults to the value 'document'.
  --output_kmeans_col=<OUTPUT_KMEANS_COLUMN>
                        column to write the generated K-Means cluster
                        assignments to. Defaults to the value 'topics_kmeans'.
  --output_hdbscan_col=<OUTPUT_HDBSCAN_COLUMN>
                        column to write the generated HDBSCAN cluster
                        assignments to. Defaults to the value 'topics_hdbscan'.
  --stop_words=<STOP_WORDS>
                        list of custom words to use as stop words for the
                        generated topic labels. Defaults to None.
  --kmeans_clusters=<KMEANS_CLUSTERS>
                        list of clusters to use to identify the optimal value of
                        K. Defaults to the range 5-15.
  --umap_n_neighbors=<UMAP_N_NEIGHBORS>
                        hyperparameter 'n_neighbors' for UMAP. Defaults to 15.
                        See https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html#n-neighbors
                        for more information.
  --umap_n_components=<UMAP_N_COMPONENTS>
                        hyperparameter 'n_components' for UMAP. Defaults to 30.
                        See https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameters.html#n_components
                        for more information.
  --umap_random_state=<UMAP_RANDOM_STATE>
                        random seed for UMAP. Defaults to None.
                        Consider setting an explicit value (e.g. 32) for
                        reproducability. See https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reproducibility.html
                        for more information.
  --hdbscan_min_cluster_size=<HDBSCAN_MIN_CLUSTER_SIZE>
                        hyperparameter 'min_cluster_size' for HDBSCAN. Defaults
                        to 20. See
                        https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameter_selection.html#selecting-min-cluster-size
                        for more information.
  --hdbscan_min_samples=<HDBSCAN_MIN_SAMPLES>
                        hyperparameter 'min_samples' for HDBSCAN. Defaults to 5.
                        See https://hdbscan.readthedocs.io/en/latest/parameter_selection.html#selecting-min-samples
                        for more information.
  --opt_threshold_unclustered=<OPT_THRESHOLD_UNCLUSTERED>
                        1 of 2 thresholds for optimizing generated HDBSCAN
                        clusters through linear regression. This represents the
                        threshold for clustering unassigned data points (HDBSCAN
                        label = -1). Defaults to assign data points with at
                        least 40% (0.4) predicted cluster assignment confidence.
  --opt_threshold_recluster=<OPT_THRESHOLD_RECLUSTER>
                        1 of 2 thresholds for optimizing generated HDBSCAN
                        clusters through linear regression. This represents the
                        threshold for reclustering assigned data points (HDBSCAN
                        label != -1). Defaults to reassign data points with at
                        least 80% (0.8) predicted cluster assignment confidence
                        from their original HDBSCAN cluster to their predicted
                        cluster.
  --hyperparameter_tuning --nohyperparameter_tuning
                        whether to perform bayesian optimization to find the
                        optimal hyperparameters for UMAP + HDBSCAN or not.
                        Defaults to True.
  ```

> Please note that ML-ToAST relies on the `tensorflow-text` package, which is
> no longer available for all platforms (e.g. Apple Macs and Windows) and
> accordingly might need to be built from source. Refer to these
> [instructions](https://github.com/tensorflow/text#a-note-about-different-operating-system-packages)
> for more information.

## Citing ML-ToAST

To cite this repository:

```
@software{ml_toast_github,
  author = {Mohab Fekry and Christiane Ahlheim and Victor Paunescu},
  title = {🍞 ML-ToAST: Multilingual Topic Clustering of Ads-triggering Search Terms},
  url = {https://github.com/google/ml_toast},
  version = {0.1.0},
  year = {2023},
}
```

## References

- [Kong, J., Scott, A., & Goerg, G. M. (2016). Improving topic clustering on search queries with word co-occurrence and bipartite graph co-clustering. Google Research.](https://research.google/pubs/pub45569/)
